Gorham residents collect signatures for new petition to delay proposed Amazon distribution center
A Gorham citizen group has been collecting signatures for a new petition in an effort to delay plans to build an Amazon distribution center along Route 25.
Residents who are members of Gorham United said their goal is to collect just under 1,500 signatures, or 10% of the number of voters who were registered for the November 2025 election.
The petition calls for the Gorham Town Council to put a referendum before the voters that would place a moratorium on the Amazon project until March 2027. If the Gorham Planning Board approves the Amazon plans before the moratorium is voted on, then the moratorium would be applied retroactively if passed by the voters.
Gorham residents who are opposed to the proposed Amazon distribution center said they are concerned about the facility's potential impact on traffic and wildlife.
"We're hopeful that if we can show that thousands of people are signing this petition, that we can either get it to a vote or that that will create enough pressure and show the Town Council that they should really take action on this," said Gorham United member Josh Trombley.
"This project is emblematic of the fact that the town is at a crossroads and we need to make a decision about what kind of town we're going to be," said Samuel Purinton, a candidate for Town Council. "Are we going to be primarily servicing these out-of-state corporate interests, or are we going to be focusing on improving the lives of the people of our town?"
Members of Gorham United said they are confident they will have enough signatures.
Under Amazon's proposal, a nearly 150,000-square-foot facility would be developed on the 94-acre parcel near the corner of Main Street (Route 25) and Dolloff Road. The distribution center would operate 24/7 with delivery trucks and vans making 3,000 trips daily.
Jonathan Greeley, Amazon's head of economic development for New England, said in July that the company has adjusted its plan after a couple dozen residents turned out for the Gorham Planning Board's first public hearing about the proposed facility, which was held in May.
According to Greeley, truck traffic will mostly happen in two waves, between 10 a.m. and 12 p.m. and between 8 and 10 p.m., not around the clock.
"The preponderance of vehicular traffic is happening kind of outside the traditional a.m. and p.m. rush hour peak, as well as not having overnight," Greeley said.
Greeley also touted the positive economic impact for the town. He said the distribution center would bring 150 new jobs with starting pay at $23 per hour.