Already proposing a 1.3 million-square-foot warehouse in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner, Amazon is now looking to build a 1.1 million-square-foot distribution center less than a half hour to the south.
The world’s largest online retailer wants to use part of a 170-acre tract in the Occum section of Norwich for an operation that would have 58 loading docks and 422 trailer-parking slots along with 729 employee parking spaces.
In its pitch to the city, Amazon held out the lure of new jobs and tax revenue.
The company estimated its Norwich fulfillment center would create the equivalent of 500 full-time jobs, and said its average hourly wage around the country is $23. Amazon also emphasized that its similar facilities nationally are assessed at more than $150 million, which could generate several million dollars a year in new tax revenue for the city.
The company said construction would generate another 200 temporary jobs.
The location is in the 185-acre Occum Industrial Park, a property Norwich has designated as a center for jobs growth. That could reduce community opposition, which often is triggered by proximity to homes. Amazon is planning a much smaller facility in Goreham, Maine, for instance, but this summer hit local resistance because the site is alongside a neighborhood.
When Mayor Swarnjit Singh posted news of Amazon’s plan on social media, there was little community pushback — but numerous responses urging the city not to grant tax abatements or provide other incentives for the $2.9 trillion company. Several posters suggested the city negotiate with Amazon to set a minimum number of jobs that would be reserved for Norwich residents.
Amazon proposes a separate trailer-parking lot, a series of truck staging areas and internal access drives, truck courts and more. The hub would receive bulk deliveries of products. It would then select, package and ship orders to local delivery centers, with all operations going on around the clock.
“The proposed development would result in approximately 60.9 acres of impervious area,” Bluewater Property Group, Amazon’s developer for the project, told Norwich’s inland wetlands commission in a memo.
Amazon acknowledged its plan would destroy 3 acres of wetlands, but proposes to create and maintain about 9 acres of wetlands elsewhere in the area. The wetlands board will take up the application on Oct. 1.
The plan reflect a wave of logistics operations moving into eastern Connecticut, where easily developable land is plentiful and cheap compared to the heavily developed communities west of the Connecticut River.
Another key attraction is I-395, eastern Connecticut’s primary north-south route that provides easy access to I-95 and the Mass Pike as well as smaller connections to Providence.
Costco, Lowe’s, Uline and others have been constructing mega-warehouses in the region.
Until this year, most of Amazon’s development in Connecticut focused on the western side of the state, with a heavy emphasis on towns near Bradley International Airport. But with much of its infrastructure there already in place, it has shifted new expansion plans eastward.
The retail behemoth already operates one of the most enormous commercial buildings in the state and is planning more.
Its five-story fulfillment center near Bradley International Airport measures 3.8 million square feet, and the company is just completing a 3.2 million-square-foot sister building on the Waterbury/Naugatuck border.
The Bradley facility is among Amazon’s largest in the country, largely identical to its Johnson, R.I. center and several other 3.8-million-square-foot operations. The company’s six-story Ontario, Calif. distribution center is substantially larger than any of them, measuring 4.5 million square feet.