The city of Waterville and the town of Sidney have each given approval to an Amazon distribution warehouse that's proposed on a roughly 50 acre site less than a mile from Interstate 95.
The 159,000 square foot building would serve as a "last mile facility," where packages would be received and dispatched to their final destinations. Amazon officials have said the warehouse would generate 150-200 full and part time jobs for the area.
The Waterville planning board granted approval for its side of the project — which includes the warehouse itself and most of the parking spaces — June 9. The Sidney planning board granted approval for its side June 15.
Meantime, a group of Sidney residents have gathered enough signatures, just more than 260, for a petition calling for a six-month moratorium on large-scale industrial development.
The petition does not mention the proposed Amazon warehouse specifically. But Tim Stonesifer, a Sidney resident who helped organize the petition, said it gives town residents a chance to consider potential guardrails and controls over big projects more broadly — from possible AI data centers to larger residential subdivisions.
"A number of folks who signed the petition were on the fence about this specific warehouse project or might even have been supportive of it, but [they] wanted to be able to talk about how development is happening in the town," said Stonesifer, who acknowledged that the Amazon facility may move forward anyway. "And this was an opportunity for that."
Brian Finnemore, an administrative assistant to the Sidney select board, said town legal counsel are reviewing the petition to decide what select board members might do with it.
The Amazon project still needs permits from the Maine Department of Transportation and the Department of Environmental Protection, as well as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Amazon representatives have said if they receive all required permits, they expect to break ground on the project near the end of this year.
Maine's first Amazon facility opened in Caribou last year. Construction is underway on a warehouse in Hermon, and Amazon is also applying for permits for a facility in Gorham.