Look inside Central Oregon’s first Amazon distribution hub
Published 4:40 pm Tuesday, September 15, 2026
|
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
|
Amazon showed off its first Central Oregon distribution hub on Tuesday, the goal of which is to increase same-day and next-day shipping to homes and businesses throughout the region.
The new facility near the Redmond Airport is part of Amazon’s $4 billion initiative to improve its delivery network nationwide. The new facility is projected to create more than 300 jobs and provide quicker delivery of Amazon orders to the over 260,000 residents of Central Oregon.
“I know this launch is going to enable us to improve delivery times,” said Will Pon, delivery manager at the Redmond Amazon facility. “It used to take 14 days for a package to arrive to my parent’s house in Bend, and now we have the ability to deliver within two days as well as same day and next day.”
In May, the facility estimated that it would employ 170 people. But as demand for delivery in the area has increased, the facility has already nearly doubled its number of projected jobs.
“Our initial projections for customer demand have been exceeded in every sense of the word here these last few months,” Pon said. “We project that going into the holiday season we are going to be doing upwards of 300,000 packages a week out of our delivery station.”
Currently the facility has around 80 employees and is still hiring.
Steve Curley, Redmond Economic Development Inc. director, said the new facility will employ lots of people in Redmond and may spur further development.
“From an economic development prospective projects like this are particularly important because they demonstrate something that we talk about often at REDI: That Redmond is a place that companies can grow and get things done,” he said.
The facility currently processes more than 30,000 packages a week, with 98% of everything sold being everyday essentials like toilet paper, paper towels, pet food and soap.
Employees in the delivery station receive overnight shipments from Woodburn and Portland and typically work from 4 to 11:30 a.m. to receive, unload and reorganize stock. Employees working in the fulfillment center operate overnight to package orders and get them ready for delivery drivers to go out each morning.
The facility currently has no plans to use drones or automations as a part of the delivery process, however, there may be opportunities in the future.
Redmond is the only Amazon facility in Oregon to have both a fulfillment center and delivery station. Amazon plans to launch 50 more of those centers throughout the U.S. in 2027.
Fulfillment center and delivery station employees are considered Amazon employees, while delivery drivers are contracted out through third-party businesses Delivery Service Partners and Amazon Flex.
“Now that they are open we going to enjoy the whole system,” Redmond Mayor Ed Fitch said. “All that labor, those family-wage jobs, now 300, will have a ripple effect in the community and the economic impact is significant.”
The ripple effect will allow local businesses to sell and purchase items through Amazon faster and provide a projected 300 workers jobs starting at $23.25.
More than 60 delivery vans come in and out of the Amazon facility everyday. Every 20 minutes delivery drivers line up their vans in the shipping bay and load shipments per the ZIP code they cover.
“We have an all-in, all-out philosophy by lane all at once, very controlled,” Pon said. “We do this all within 20 minutes per wave.”
This controlled distribution is expected to expand during the holiday months.
“That’s going to expand rapidly here,” Pon said. “We’re going to be doing well over 100 (vans) here in the coming months.”
The facility has already had to rent more vans since opening in July, due to rising demand.
Amazon is also partnering with local businesses to help deliver products faster and promote products on the Amazon website.
Katie Thomson owner of Square Baby, a Redmond based baby food brand that focuses on nutrition, is one of the local businesses owners who will benefit from the new Redmond facility.
Thomson, who launched sales with Amazon a year ago, will now be able to get shipments out faster in Central Oregon due to the new fulfillment center.
Thomson’s partnership has also allowed the baby food company to experiment with tasting assortments and “compete with larger companies with giant company budgets” due to Amazon consumer diagnostics.
“It’s a great option for us to continue to grow,” Thomson said.
Last year, 40 million items were sold on Amazon by Oregon-based businesses.