North Myrtle Beach considers Amazon facility drone launch pad
The company is eyeing the North Strand for its new delivery option
NORTH MYRTLE BEACH, SC (WMBF) - The City of North Myrtle Beach received an application from Amazon for a proposed drone launch pad.
Suzanne Pritchard, the city’s assistant director of Planning and Development, said the application is for minor site changes at the Amazon facility on Water Tower Road.
The changes would be on the property and would allow the facility to create a drone launch pad that’s about 16,000 square feet.
Amazon has been expanding its Prime Air program, which would deliver packages to customers more quickly and through the air.
The drones would carry and deliver packages of up to five pounds in as little time as 30 minutes. Pre-planned routes for the drones are reviewed prior to operation.
The city can vote on the launch pad, but whether the drones fly is determined by the government.
“The FAA regulations govern most of the operations,” Pritchard said. “I think the city absolutely does have a say in where they would launch from or where they’re allowed to land within city limits.”
The FAA said Prime Air operates under specific conditions, such as flying under 400 feet in the air.
However, local restrictions could still ground those efforts.
“FAA has a large no-fly area around the city and around the Grand Strand Airport,” Pritchard said.
The city has postponed the decision for the Amazon site changes and launch pad to workshop the idea. However, one North Myrtle Beach resident said she worries for the future.
“Once we set a precedent, something happens forever. What does that mean going down the road?” said Jolene Puffer. “What does that mean? How is it gonna look as we get, you know, more technology? You know, we have flying cars; who knows what’s coming, so we have something in place to protect the quality of life.”
Amazon says the response from customers on Prime Air has been positive.
The company also says it is working with the FAA and city officials for the possible expansion.
The proposed idea will be discussed in a later meeting.
Feel more informed, prepared, and connected with WMBF. For more free content like this, download our apps. Have feedback that can help us improve? Click here.
Copyright 2026 WMBF. All rights reserved.