A group of Amazon workers in Toronto allege the company is acting illegally by forcing workers with injuries sustained on the job to go on indefinite medical leave, with no clear path to return.
Four workers told Village Media they suffered life-changing injuries between 2021 and 2025 while working at Amazon’s sprawling Scarborough fulfillment centre.
The workers said that while Amazon initially offered them modified duties, this changed over the course of several months beginning in the summer of 2025.
Workers allege the company claimed it could no longer provide roles accommodating their injuries and forced them to go on medical leave, able only to claim compensation via the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board (WSIB), which offers about 15 per cent less than their former Amazon salaries.
Faced with these concerns, workers from the Scarborough warehouse said they delivered a joint letter to an Amazon manager last spring, asking for their jobs back.
But Nithy Sivakumar, an injured Scarborough warehouse worker, said nothing changed.
Sukanya Rajbavan, another injured worker from the same warehouse, said she and others are now speaking out publicly, because they believe it is Amazon’s legal duty under Ontario law to offer workplace accommodations.
“We worked [for] six years. We worked hard. Now, they throw us [away],” Rajbavan charged.
“Lawfully, they have to accommodate us,” she said she believes.
The workers said they are not alone in the challenge they’re facing.
Jack Cobb, a member of the warehouse’s joint health and safety committee, said he is aware of about 20 or more other injured Scarborough warehouse workers who he alleges were also forced to take medical leave by Amazon around this time.
He alleged that the company claimed it had instituted a “policy change” resulting in workers being forced to take leave, but said Amazon would not provide the workers with details about this alleged policy shift.
A reporter also spoke with an injured worker at Amazon’s Bolton warehouse, Jevorne Dickson, who alleged that she and about 20 other workers experienced similar treatment.
The five injured workers said they want their jobs with Amazon back. They said they are fearful of losing their WSIB support — which provides injured workers with a maximum of about 85 per cent of their prior pay. For several workers, this was about $25 or $26 per hour.
Lien Do, a worker who suffered a back injury while on shift at Amazon’s Scarborough warehouse last year, said she feels the company is discarding injured workers like “garbage.”
When asked for comment, Amazon did not provide responses to the specific allegations, but instead provided a general statement about its approach to dealing with injuries and workplace safety.
“Safety is our top priority, and supporting employees recovering from a workplace injury is something we take seriously and invest in,” said a company spokesperson, in an emailed statement.
The company said its approach to supporting injured workers focuses on working with them and their health providers to “identify changes or modifications that allow them to perform their roles free from workplace obstacles, and where that's not possible, enable them to take other steps to support their recovery.”
“Consistent with our obligations under Ontario law, we offer a wide range of programs and initiatives, from individualized job modifications to return-to-work consultation to health resources, all designed to support a safe, healthy return to work,” the spokesperson said.
‘We worked hard’: Injured worker
Rajbavan said she began working for Amazon in 2020, soon after the company opened its Scarborough warehouse near Markham Road and Steeles Avenue East.
She said the work was very physical. Rajbavan worked full-time on the night shift as a stower, putting newly-arrived products onto shelves for later retrieval by other workers.
In this role, Rajbavan said she was responsible for moving dozens of items per hour, which could each weigh up to 49 pounds, such as bed frames or large bags of dog food.
She said workers were on their feet constantly and sometimes struggled to find time for bathroom breaks, given the company’s tight monitoring of employees’ “time on task.”
Rajbavan said she worked very hard and never received any warnings about her performance.
However, she said her challenges with Amazon began in March 2025, when she injured her shoulder while checking a compressed mattress for customer damage in the return department.
After raising the issue with the company, Rajbavan said Amazon initially provided her with different roles that accommodated her injury. Among other tasks, she said she was assigned to drive a “tugger” machine in the warehouse, moving packages from one area to another.
However, in October of last year, about seven months after her injury, she said the company forced her to go on leave.
“They asked me to go home because they said their policy changed,” she alleged. “[They said] ‘there is no more modified duties.’”
Rajbavan alleged she and other workers were told they can return if their injury restrictions change such that they are able to again lift up to 49 pounds.
But Rajbavan said that in her case, doing so would be impossible.
She said WSIB’s medical professionals, who she said have reviewed her test results and assessed her in-person, have told her that her shoulder injury prevents heavy lifting and is lifelong.
Dickson, the Bolton warehouse worker, feels she is in a similar situation regarding her ability to return to her prior duties as a picker — a job which often involves walking long distances to retrieve items to be packed and shipped to customers.
She said that after a box at the warehouse fell onto her and broke her foot in 2022, she deals with daily pain, nerve damage and an ongoing limp.
Dickson said she has also been told by medical professionals that her injury is permanent.
“They’re telling you to change your restriction, and you could come back,” she alleged. “[But] my injury is not fake, so I can’t change my restriction just to come back.”
For workers returning from an injury, the Amazon spokesperson said the company assesses each individual’s unique situation, and works with them and WSIB, where applicable, to “identify and offer the right support.”
What is an employer’s responsibility?
In Ontario, employers are generally required to accommodate workers who have suffered on-the-job injuries. However, this responsibility applies only to the extent that the accommodation does not cause the employer “undue hardship.”
One of the major tests for undue hardship relates to cost.
To successfully claim that accommodating a worker is cost-prohibitive, a company must prove that the expense would be so substantial that it would “alter the essential nature of the enterprise” or would impact the company so significantly that it would “substantially affect its viability.”
Cobb said he does not believe re-employing the injured workers would cause undue hardship to Amazon, which globally earned $77 billion in profit last year.
He alleged that since the group of injured workers have been put on leave, some of the tasks they previously accomplished while on accommodated duties are now being completed by other full-time workers.
Cobb alleged that Amazon has shifted its policy with respect to accommodating injured workers in order to create a chilling effect on injury reporting.
“I think that there … [were] too many people reporting injuries, which was reflecting the true nature of how unsafe it is to work there,” he alleged. “[So] they developed a policy that would consciously scare people away from reporting.”
WSIB data shows the number of injuries (and rate of some injuries) at Amazon’s Ontario fulfillment centre facilities rose from 2019 to 2024, before dropping modestly in 2025.
In 2025, the last year for which WSIB has complete data, there were more than 2,000 allowed injuries claimed at Amazon’s Ontario warehouses — more than triple the number WSIB allowed claimed in 2020.
Similarly, between 2020 to 2025 the rate of injuries resulting in lost-time claims at Amazon’s warehouse facilities in Ontario also tripled — from about 1.5 per 100 workers in 2020 to about 3.5 per 100 workers in 2025.
This year, WSIB has paid out more than $17 million in benefits to injured Amazon warehouse workers in Ontario — a sum that has increased each year since 2019.
Workers say peers are fearful to speak out
Tharani Ananth, a worker who injured her elbow working at Amazon’s Scarborough warehouse several years ago, claimed that as a result of the alleged policy change, workers at the facility are now more fearful to tell their superiors when they get hurt.
“[When] they have pain or they have injuries, they are really scared to report,” she said, adding that workers also fear being put on leave by Amazon. “They [will] lose their income and everything.”
The Amazon spokesperson said the company "actively encourage[s]” employees to report injuries and safety concerns.
“It's part of onboarding from an employee's first day, reinforced by ongoing training, daily safety briefings, and incident-reporting processes,” said the spokesperson.
The spokesperson added that the company has instituted multiple ways for workers to share safety suggestions with management, including an “in-house reporting tool.”
“Available on employees' devices and workstations, it makes it easy to raise safety ideas in real time, routes them to the right leaders, and lets employees track and even rate how their concerns are handled,” they said.
‘Every dollar counts’: injured worker
The workers who spoke with a reporter said the injuries they suffered while working for Amazon have had a significant impact on their lives.
Sukanya said her shoulder injury has left her with a reduced range of motion, forcing her to rely on her children for help with putting on a shirt.
Though she said she takes painkillers every day, she said her husband and children now do much of the cooking at home, because holding her arm up for long periods of time is too painful.
Sukanya said that she is currently taking English classes offered through the WSIB. However, if she is not able to return to work at Amazon, she said she is fearful about her ability to secure another job.
“Young people, they can at least find a job,” she said. “We cannot. The job market is very tough … Our English is not good.”
Workers told a reporter that the reduced pay they receive through WSIB is making life more difficult, especially with the rising cost of living.
As an only parent of five children, Dickson said the loss of about $400 per month is significant. “Every dollar counts for me,” she said.